https://www.practical-go-lessons.com/chap-25-json-and-xml


**Encoding** is the process of transforming a piece of data into a “coded form”.

> When transmitting a message through a communication channel, we want to make sure that the receiver will understand the message. Hence the sender and the receiver will decide which encoding technique they will use. The term encoding technique might sound unfamiliar, but you use the process of encoding every day... When we speak to another individual, we encode our thoughts into a coded form: the language (English, French, French Canadian, Mandarin,...). When you speak, you encode your thoughts. (if you think before you speak, of course). The language that we use has a set of rules that we have to respect to make our message understandable (syntax, grammar ...). This is the same for all “coded form”.

The “coded form” can be transformed back into the original message thanks to **decoding**.

---

**Marshaling** is the process of transforming an object into a storable representation using a specific format.
- We can marshal a variable of type struct in JSON, for example

**Unmarshaling** is the reverse process.

> “Marshaling” refers to the same concept as “encoding”. However, when you use this term, you explicitly say that you will work with precisely defined objects (ex: a map, a slice, a variable of type struct...). An encoder operates on a stream of data, a marshaler operates on a data structure, an object.

> You might ask what a data stream is? It is a flow of data that arrives into a system. For instance, a system can receive data streams, flows of data through a network connection. Handling a data stream can be a complex task because data can arrive in chunks, and it can arrive in an unordered manner. Chunks may also vary in size, which can lead to memory issues. Conclusion : we encode a stream of data, we marshal a data structure.


**Struct Tags** 
Tags are small string literals that can follow a field declaration. Tags are accessible to the decoder. It will use them to decode the JSON string correctly.

Tags always have the same construction :

`json:"nameOfTheFieldInJson"`


If one of the fields of your variable is not set, it will have the default zero value. By default, it will be present in the JSON string generated by json.Marshal or json.MarshalIndent :


We can add the omitempty directive into the struct tag to make it disappear from the outputed JSON :

```
type Product struct {
	ID   uint64 `json:"id"`
	Name string `json:"name,omitempty"`
}
```
Then, in case the name is empty, only the id will be placed in the json

-  To Skip a field from the marshal

The use case is simple, you have a struct with ten fields, and you want to hide it in the encoded version of your JSON string (for instance, the field is no longer used by your clients).

What you could do is to remove it from your struct. That solution is not the good one if you still use this field in the rest of your code.

```
type Product struct {
    ID          uint64 `json:"id"`
    Name        string `json:"name,omitempty"`
    Description string `json:"-"`
}
```
